---
id: 377
title: How To Express Your Anger and Still Be Kind
date: 2012-06-19T04:20:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://www.wellnessmanager.info/2012/06/19/how-to-express-your-anger-and-still-be-kind/
permalink: /2012/06/19/how-to-express-your-anger-and-still-be-kind/
categories:
  - General
---
Anger work is a psychological tool which is used to heal from past and present emotional pains. The basic premise of Anger Work is to let go of emotionally painful events by focusing on them and expressing anger about the pain. By focusing on the trauma over and over, the pain will gradually go away, never to affect you again.

A comparison can be made between our physical health and our emotional health. When the body experiences a severe laceration or other injury, if the wound is left unattended it will get infected. Eventually, it will fester and may even turn into gangrene, a life threatening condition. If, however, the wound is cleansed thoroughly and allowed to heal completely, all that is left is a scar to remind the victim of the event.

Likewise, when an emotional wound is sustained by the psyche, if it is not addressed, and feelings are repressed, it will fester as surely as any physical wound. As a result it will start to affect other areas of the person&#8217;s life, just as infection spreads to other parts of the body. Since abusive people and emotional pain are part of everyday life, the person who does not learn to deal appropriately with them will start to experience a cumulative negative effect. Eventually the individual&#8217;s overall emotional and psychological health will be at risk.

If, however, the emotional wound is cleansed well, and allowed to heal completely, all that is left is a memory. This memory, like an old scar, does not hurt. It becomes no more than a record of your personal history, an experience which you have learned from. Anger Work is the cleansing process that can bring this healing about.

There are two essential keys to making your Anger Work productive. These are:
  
1) Do not take out or &#8220;act-out&#8221; your anger on yourself.
  
2) Do not act out your anger on others (this includes animals.)
  
Instead, focus your anger on an object, not on yourself or others.
  
For example, you can practice boxing a punching bag as you feel anger and think about how your boss just fired you for some unjustified reason. Or you may be with some friends at a bowling alley, throwing the balls at your ex-wife who cheated on you. You may be out rowing in a river, pretending to hit your father&#8217;s hand with a paddle for slapping you across the face when you were eleven years old.
  
Who Needs Anger Work?

There are three categories of people who can benefit from doing Anger Work. The first category is comprised of people who are already consciously angry and need to find some constructive way of resolving their feelings. The second category consists of those who don&#8217;t feel angry, but who struggle with interpersonal or intrapersonal difficulties and have never fully processed the traumatic events which shaped them and set them up for the problems they face today. The third category includes those individuals who have successfully dealt with all the issues from their past, but are interested in healthy ways of handling aggravating situations that come up in their current, daily lives.

Anger Work is a practical tool for processing the feelings these situations create. By doing Anger Work you can flush out the negative energy generated by them. At the same time you are reducing your stress and increasing your energy level. You will find that you are able to solve interpersonal problems more quickly and you will spend less time trying to take back words you said in the heat of an argument. I recommend Anger Work to anyone and everyone. It is simply a healthy way to process the negative experiences of life, from severe traumas to minor irritations.

Once you have learned how to use Anger Work to process your feelings about the negative experiences of life, this ability can serve as a great asset to you. Every life contains a measure of suffering. Perhaps nothing tragic has happened to you thus far, but eventually, if nothing else, someone you love will become sick and die. When this happens you will have the tools to deal with your loss.