---
id: 810
title: Avoid Home Improvement Mistakes
date: 2014-02-24T04:20:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://www.wellnessmanager.info/?p=810
permalink: /2014/02/24/avoid-home-improvement-mistakes/
categories:
  - General
---
Due to various reasons, home improvements are resorted to. The underlying reason for the home improvement is that the owner of the house wants to lead a happy and comfortable life in that house. To get it assured, he is ready to spend money for this purpose. But, he has to take steps which don&#8217;t involve more expenditure. He has to see that everything has to be completed within the permissible budget. If it overshoots his budgetary allocations, he has to cut short other expenses. And, he has to ensure that the whole exercise has to be completed within the proposed time-frame and also, the work he has undertaken should be finished in such a way that it need not be started afresh in the immediate future. Repetition is forbidden considering the amount already spent. In addition, the home improvement scheme has to convince all the members of the family.

If your intention id to carry out a perfect and full-fledged home improvement scheme, you should know you are doing it and whether your whole program is worth the expenditure contemplated. If one feels that apart from providing an opportunity for leading a comfortable life, the expenditure incurred should function in the role of an investment. Here only, the actual hitch crops up because this investment will not produce any returns or dividends in the figurative sense of the term. But, it creates an emotional contentment which is equivalent to monetary returns. The gain is going to be in the form of a sentiment; not in currency value. If one is creative, innovative and imaginative, his improvement scheme will increase the resale value of the house.

When you are opting for renovation, you have to think about the total expenditure. If you intend to stay there for a pretty long period, calculate whether the amount required for renovation is worth the spending. If it is a worthy proposition, you can start work. If you feel that it is a huge amount, you can think about some other alternatives. If you don&#8217;t pre-access your requirements, you will end up spending a lot, more than what your contractor demands. Because, whenever you want to incorporate some modifications, it will scale up your expenses. So, please think before you jump. It is advisable to fix a deadline for the completion of the job, lest it will extend further and you will incur additional expenditure. So, your contractor should mention all these aspects very clearly so as to avoid future complications.

If renovation is on a larger scale, there will be likelihood of dust, debris and piles of bricks of sand. This has to be cleaned up as early as possible. Usage of toilets by construction workers, security concerns due to the demotion of walls, kitchen functions of your family getting disturbed daily, hassles to neighborhood occupants &#8211; all these issues are to be thrashed out. The bottom-line is to carry out the jobs without any botheration to you or to others. Whenever there is a storm or hurricane, contractors are on the prowl to hunt for repair works which they finish according to their schedules and schemes. You have to be alert enough to avoid headaches created by some contractors.

Some salesmen or representatives of contract firms lure you to accepting their renovation projects. Since you are not able to judge their capabilities, you simply agree to the conditions proposed by the salesperson. But, finally, the contractors and workmen fall below the standards set by you. So, verify their capability and skill from some references and then entrust your assignment to them.

Another important point you have to remember is about the character and conduct of the workmen. As you know, in every field, you can encounter goons and thugs and renovation is not an exception. In the guise of skilled laborers, some anti-social elements may also enter your home. So, considering your family welfare and asset security, you have to filter the employees by seeing their records, if possible or by getting recommendations from others. Try to get some info about the bonafides and whereabouts of the contractor concerned, and prejudge his disposition and adaptability. By asking questions about him, you can realize positive results in faster pace. Depend on references an get telephonic information. Make personal visits and see for yourself. Please avoid avoidable mistakes.